# FracAbility: A python toolbox for survival analysis in fractured rock systems
**Gabriele Benedetti** $^1$, Stefano Casiraghi $^1$, Andrea Bistacchi $^1$

$^1$ Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca, Dipartimento di Scienze dell’Ambiente e della Terra, Milano, Italy


Fracture networks are essential for the analysis and modelling of mechanical and hydraulic properties of rock masses. Research or exploitation of water, natural gas and petroleum reservoirs, all heavily rely on creating fracture models to understand the distribution of fractures and their properties in 3D space. Recently, the use of Digital Outcrop Models (DOMs) provided a solid framework for the collection of large and quantitative datasets from which different properties can be extracted. Of particular interest are the topology and length distribution parameters, essential in building stochastic fracture network. 

We propose FracAbility, a new python toolbox that enables the users to investigate both topology and fracture lengths in digitalized fracture networks. We provide tools to clean and optimize digitized fracture networks to assure water tight connections between fractures. Methods to calculate and display the most connected regions are also available together with many options for visualization. Because of the complex nature of exposed rock outcrops, fitting a statistical distribution to trace length data can sometimes be challenging. Areas covered by rock debree, vegetation patches or simply the outcrops' outer boundaries can introduce right-censoring bias and can often lead to parameter underestimation. Particular attention has been given to this issue by applying survival analysis techniques, typically used in other disciplines, such as in biology or engineering, to manage right-censored datasets. These specific statistical tools were recently implemented in the scipy package, and can be used to efficiently fit a distribution while considering censored data, thus correcting for the right-censoring bias. Multiple distributions fitting is also possible and statistical tests can be carried out to rank the different models and define which is the most “fitting”.

The modular nature of this library bring different advantages. First, it is possible to rapidly analyse heterogeneous datasets Second, being a stand-alone package, FracAbility can be used in different applications such as scripts, jupyter notebooks or directly in software with python backends or APIs such as QGIS or ArcGIS.
